{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf230
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\fi720\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 1. Can we write another test when we have a failing test?\
2. Can we change the target code that is not driven by a test? Any change to the logic of the program should be driven by a failed test.\
3. Is minimizing the time in red bar a good idea?\
4. Can we change both the test and target code at the same time? Keep a tight feedback loop between the code and tests: don\'92t let one or the other get too far out in front.\
5. What is the start state and end state for a refactoring step?\
6. Do we always take very small steps in TDD? Why or Why not?\
7. How can you verify the correctness of a test?\
8. What should be the first test? Why?\
9. Is the order of implementing tests important?\
10. How to handle problems due to mocking?\
11. How to keep Mocks and real objects in sync? Write contract tests. See Integration tests are scam video.\
12. What does it mean when you add a new test and it passes without changing the target code? How can you ensure the correctness of a test?\
13. When can we delete tests?\
14. How can you verify the correctness of a test, when a test passes without modifying the target code?\
\
Mocking can lead to tests that does not fail when the DoC changes. Refer 022-Test-Isolation-and-Refactoring\
\
What happens when you change production code without changing or adding new tests?\
\
Page 133 - The example code has calculation in the test. Is this not duplicate logic in the test that is supposed to be in production code also?\
\

\b Clarifications
\b0 \
\
Why not use record and playback testing for external APIs like credit card processing?}