{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\fi720\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Child Test
\b0 \
\
How do you get a test case running that turns out to be too big? Write a smaller test case that represents the broken part of the bigger test case. Get the smaller test case running. Reintroduce the larger test case.\
\
The red/green/refactor rhythm is so important for continuous success that when you are at risk of losing it, it is work extra effort to maintain it. This happens when the test accidentally requires several changes to make it work. Minimize the time in red bar.\
\
When I write a test that is too big, I first try to learn the lesson. Why was it too big? What could I have done differently that would have made it smaller? How am I feeling right now?\
\
Delete or x the offending test and start over. \
\

\b Mock Object
\b0 \
\
How do you test an object that relies on an expensive or complicated resource? Create a fake version of the resource that answers constants. Mocks improve performance, reliability and readability. \
\
If you want to use Mock Objects, you can\'92t easily store expensive resources in global variables. If you do, you will have to set the global to a Mock Object, run the test, and be sure to reset the global when you are done.\
\
Mocks will encourage you down the path of carefully considering the visibility of every object, reducing the coupling in your designs.\
\
Mock Objects add a risk to the project - what if the mock doesn\'92t behave like the real object? You can reduce this risk by having a set of tests for the mock that can also be applied to the real object when it becomes available.\
\

\b Self Shunt
\b0 \
\
How do you test that one object communicates correctly with another? Have the object under test communicate with the test case instead of with the object it expects.\
\
Tests written with Self Shunt read better.\
\

\b Log String
\b0 \
\
How do you test that the sequence in which messages are called is correct?\
\

\b Crash Test Dummy
\b0 \
\
How do you test error code that is unlikely to be invoked? Invoke it anyway with a special object that throws an exception instead of doing real work. Examples: File system is full, Out of memory error, network connectivity problem etc.\
\
Simulate the real world problems by using crash test dummy. A crash test dummy is like a mock object, except you don\'92t need to mock up the whole object. You can override just the one method you want.\
\

\b Broken Test
\b0 \
\
How do you leave a programming session when you\'92re programming alone? Leave the last test broken. When you come back to the code, you have an obvious place to start you have a concrete bookmark to help you remember what you were thinking and making that test work should be quick work, so you\'92ll quickly get your feet back on that victory road.\
\

\b Clean Check-In
\b0 \
\
How do you leave a programming session when you\'92re programming in a team? Leave all the tests running.\
\
}